Paul is in Rome.
He's in prison, and he knows
that his life is almost over.
That's the context now in which we read.
He looks back on God's goodness
to him, and he looks forward
to the dangers and the hope.
The Lord stood by me, gave me strength
to proclaim the message fully.
All right.
Well, it is great to see
everybody this morning.
Super pumped to be able to
jump back into the word of God.
We have been in the book of second
Timothy, um, not for as long as we
were in first Timothy, but we're
still walking through this slowly.
Uh, and so if you have your Bibles with
you, go ahead and turn to second Timothy.
Uh, chapter two, we're gonna
be starting in verse 14.
Um, but want to kind of catch everybody
up cuz I know that people are in
and out and some of you may be new.
So be able to catch you up on
what we've been walking through.
But in the book of second Timothy,
what we have learned is this is
a letter from Paul the Apostle to
his true son in the faith Timothy.
And we, we consistently talk through this,
so make sure everybody understands this.
This understanding is, this is what is
known as Paul's last letter to Timothy,
uh, towards the end of his life.
And so these words in which
Paul would be sharing to Timothy
would be important words.
You know, we think about this as
if somebody was on their death.
What are the last few words that
you would wanna share with someone?
And so Paul's thinking in this
idea of these maybe the last
words that I share with Timothy.
Now he's inviting Timothy to come see
him in prison, but if he doesn't make it,
these are important words that he hears.
And so because of this, uh,
these words are pretty direct.
And so Paul's really trying
to encourage Timothy.
He's trying to remind
Timothy of how much one.
Their relationship was right, how
much he loved him, but also for
Timothy, uh, to build him up and give
him encouragement because Timothy
would know that he is getting this
letter, uh, from Paul in prison.
And so Paul's not just getting this, you
know, writing this letter in prison and
saying, Hey, you go do whatever you want.
But he's actually challenging
Timothy to come and suffer with Paul.
And so this idea that, that Timothy's
receiving this letter and this and
this place is saying, Hey, you want
me to come and, and like suffer with
you, Like maybe to the point of.
That could be a little bit scary.
That could be a little bit,
obviously from my standpoint, do I
really wanna receive this letter?
Do I wanna open it?
But Paul knew that God had gifted
Timothy to, to, to receive this message
and to be able to be encouraged to
share with other people as well.
And so we recently have covered this in
the, in chapter two, this idea behind.
Now Paul challenged Timothy to
take all the things that Paul
had taught Timothy in his life.
And to share this with faithful
people who will take that same message
and share it with faithful people.
And that idea of faithfulness is so
important because faithful people are
people who will obviously take whatever's
given to them and be consistent,
will actually show up and do it.
And so Paul, knowing this is
sharing this with Timothy and
Timothy, here's the cool part.
The moment that we get to read this
letter, we are now the faithful people.
That has been entrusted with this message,
and that may seem weighty to you, like, Oh
man, like I'm entrusted with this message.
What am I supposed to do with it?
The cool part is that as a
church, as a body of believers,
we get to do this together.
We get to encourage one another
together to walk in this until.
Learn this.
And so we are obviously walking
through this book to understand that
together and to learn, and we get
to be in a part of a text today that
anybody in here ever go to AANAs.
I don't know how many people know AANAs.
We got one, maybe 2, 3, 4.
Okay.
If you've ever been in AANAs,
you probably memorized.
One of these verses here,
it talks about the workman.
And, uh, I remember my, uh, the music
minister was part of our last church.
He would repeat this to me all the
time because he grew up in AANAs.
And I'll read the verse here in
just a little bit, but a workman
that that presents himself to God.
And, uh, it's a really cool verse.
But what we may hear today, and this
is something I really wanna encourage
him before we jump off into the text,
what you may hear today is something
where you look around and you go,
But we don't deal with this in our.
We don't deal with this in our lives.
There's going to be things that you
hear that are for preparation, right?
You, you, and you'll hear this
word, remember, we need to
remember them when we need it.
For some of you, you're gonna
hear these verses today and you're
gonna go, Yep, I've been a part
of a church that's been this way.
I've been around other believers, or maybe
even yourself, has been one of these.
And so in these moments, we're gonna
have a lot of things that we can take.
So hopefully you'll draw into this.
But I wanna start with this.
Has anybody ever.
Went to go do something and on the
way to go do it, you got distracted
by something else and then you forgot
what you were supposed to go do.
Anybody, I'm guessing most of
y'all are pretty similar to me.
It has to do a lot with even housework
cuz I went to go get the broom to go
sweep upstairs and on the way down I
saw covers that were on the floor that
my kids left there and I'm like, ugh.
So then I start folding the covers
and I put them up and then I stand
there for about five minutes.
What was I going.
We forget, and so when we think about this
idea of forgetting, we get distracted.
And so we're gonna hear this message
today from Paul to Timothy to not get
distracted from our calling as Christ
followers, to not get distracted.
From what God has called us
to do and these distractions
we'll hear more about today.
So, uh, if you don't have your Bibles,
we will have the text up here today.
Again, second Timothy chapter
two, starting in verse 14.
We're just gonna read through 18.
So here's what it says.
Remind them of these things and charge
them before God not to fight about words.
This is useless and leads
to the run of those who.
Be diligent to present yourself
to God as one approved.
A worker who didn't, does not
need to be ashamed, correctly,
Teaching the word of truth.
Now that's the verse that
you would've learned in Iana.
And then it says this.
It says, Avoid irreverent,
and empty speech.
Since those who engage in it will,
um, Uh, produce even more Goli, uh,
Godlessness and their teaching will
spread like gang Green Haen and, uh,
PHUs are among them and they have
departed from the truth, saying that
the resurrection has already taken
place and are running the faith of some.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we just pray, Lord, that
you take this word, you take our hearts,
Lord, and you open 'em up to this word.
Lord, I pray that if we can, uh, take this
and begin to apply to our lives, Lord, to
remember, um, how important your word is.
Lord, I pray that we don't leave out here
unchanged, Lord, but we continue to use
your word as a light, uh, to our path,
Lord, and a lamp unto, unto our feet.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this in your headly name.
So the word remind is the first word
that you'll see here, and that we
actually talked a little bit about
this last week about the word remember.
And I finally, as I began to talk
more and more about, remember,
and I challenged you, I said,
Hey, take your Bible one year.
And read through it.
And your whole purpose is to underline
the word remember, or remind or
something that is obviously within
that same context, underline that and
see how many times it's in the Bible.
Well then I finally decided to go
study it 550 times in the Bible
with the variations included of that
word, remember, is in the Bible.
So I wanna ask this question.
Why do you think that Remember
is in the Bible that many times,
anybody, that's how much we.
We can all relate with forgetting.
Uh, if, if you're anything like me,
since I have been on staff now at at
a church for about 10 years, one of
my early jobs as an administrative
assistant for my pastor was to do
things, was to remember things for him.
I would literally stand around
him as he had conversations with
people and when they would ask him
a question and he needed to respond
to it, I was usually taking notes.
And I actually got to a point where
I think I have accomplished over
10,000 tasks in min ministry on my
reminder app, on my phone, 10,000.
That may be even under,
because sometimes I use notes.
My notes is full as well.
So all of us are driven with this idea
of remember because why We easily forget.
So Paul knows this, that just the human
idea that all of us tend to forget.
And so the word remember is so important.
That's why God even challenges us.
That's why the Bible challenges.
This is why I challenge you, that
we need to be spending time in
God's word every day, because
at times we forget what it says.
So he says, Remember right.
To remind them of these things.
What things has he already said to Paul
or to, to us in this text, he's always
saying to remind them of these things,
but also remind them of these things
that we're gonna talk about today.
So the first thing he says is to
remember and to avoid disputing over
words, to avoid disputing over words.
So when we dispute over words in
the church, it distractions from the
mission that God has called us to.
Um, I, I once heard this story where
these two guys were on the battlefield
fighting over how they were going.
Defeat their enemy.
They got so frustrated at each other,
they were about to draw swords, and
somebody finally stops them and says,
Hey, look, turn and look this way.
That's the enemy at times in the
church where all our goal is to,
to go fulfill the mission that
God has called us to fulfill.
And for us as a church, we want
to inspire hope by discovering
God's purpose for their life
through a relationship with Jesus.
We wanna continue to help people know
what they were meant and born to be and
to do through a relationship with Jesus.
And sometimes we get distracted.
And here's what typically happens.
We don't have this in this church, is
typically there's, there's arguments
over things like carpet color, good news.
We don't have carpet color.
We can't argue about that when
we've eliminated that one.
But sometimes we get distracted over
these small things about words, right?
So what words, Non essential words to the
gospel that distract us from the mission.
Things that would get us off the topic
and off the purpose of what God has called
us to do as a church and as individual.
Now I could go through a list
of things and uh, obviously we
all have our different examples,
but I wanna give a couple today.
But I do wanna mention one thing.
He says, remind them of these
things and charge them before
God not to fight about words.
This is so important.
We need to be able to have discussions
in our church over things that we have
issues with each other over differences
of belief, even in the word of God.
There needs to be conversations
about those things.
There needs to be a place for it.
I welcome.
I love it, but what he
said was fighting, right?
Fighting is something that leads us
to causing an argument in the church.
And if you've never been a part of this,
praise God, you haven't been a part of it.
But there has been arguments in the
church where people get so frustrated
at the, the disunity in the church that
they don't wanna be a part of that.
And, and it usually even happens
on a Sunday morning in front of
people who don't even know Jesus.
And they see the church and they see
this disunified church over words or
differences that are non essential to the
gospel and what ends up happening, people
don't wanna be a part of that church.
So Paul's really teaching Timothy
this idea and teaching us this idea
of don't let our words lead us to
fighting and arguments that obviously
lead people away from the church.
So let me give you a couple examples.
So you guys know some things in my
life that I've seen in the church, and
again, you'll have some as well for you.
For me, this wasn't necessarily words,
but this is something that we did
in our church and it's so small, but
we had air fresheners in our church.
I mean, I don't know if anybody likes air
fresheners, but if you've ever been in
an old church, what happens in an old.
It's musty, kind of stinky.
So we decided to put Samir first in there
cuz everybody's gonna want the church
to smell great, except for one person.
One person didn't like 'em so much
that they refused to attend the
church service, go inside the church.
But not only did they refuse to do
that, they would gather a group to
complain about it so it begin to
make a scene and fight over that.
Now here is the thing.
All they had to do was have a
conversation with us when they started
having a conversation with us on.
We were trying to make some
things, Hey, let's, let's, let's
bring down some of the smell.
Let's move it around.
Cause they had some breathing stuff
that they were feeling like they were
bothered with, but it wasn't enough.
They actually end up causing a scene in
the middle of our lobby with our pastor
yelling at him over air fresheners.
Now, just so you know, again, I
want everybody to understand, I
care about whatever air fresheners
are lighting if you have issues,
but there's a way to go about it.
And these words were not
essential to the gospel.
So let me go a step further.
This is actually words where me as
a, as a, a new, uh, new believer.
I say new believer, but new on staff.
A couple years in, my pastors started to
let me have Wednesday nights to teach.
That's where I kind of cut
my teeth on what teaching is.
I don't know if I've learned anything yet.
That's where I started
on Wednesday nights.
And on Wednesday nights we had a lot
of mature believers, uh, in that group.
And so they had to kind of bear with me
as I learned how to teach God's word.
But there was one guy, again, this
guy loved our church and loved me,
but he tend to not only talk about
words that didn't matter in the text,
but he would almost take over the
class and begin teaching the class.
In place of me.
And it wasn't over that the, the what I
was teaching was wrong, but that as those
words, some things he just didn't like
my application or he would begin to take,
you know, control of things and well,
we ended up pulling him aside and having
this conversation with him like, there's
a right and a wrong way to do that.
And, uh, come to figure out there were
some people that was, was refusing
to come to class because of that,
what was happening because he was
arguing and fighting over or causing a
distraction with words or differences.
We're not talking about key
beliefs on this first part here.
So those are two examples from me for you.
You may have something else and
maybe you haven't experienced that,
but because we know it's in the
word, because they've given you
some examples, it can happen in the.
So what I would challenge with this,
and this is, this is what I would say
that the Paul's getting this, is that
we need to understand how to handle our
differences with words without fighting,
without arguing, coming to one another.
Right?
This is what the Bible talks
about coming to one another.
If we have differences, if we have
disagreements, there's a right and the
wrong way to do it that honors God.
And he says this at the end of this
verse, uh, 14, he says, This is useless
and leads to the run of those who.
Think about it this way.
When you argue in front of your kids,
you're not benefiting your kids.
This is something me and my
wife have tried to work on.
We're not perfect.
Well, we try to have those arguments or
those successions outside of the room.
Why?
Because it, it bothers them.
It runs them.
And so that's the same thing
in the church when we had these
arguments, um, that they begin to
distract others and influence them.
But we do need to have a
place where we can have open
discussions about differences of.
And, uh, I think that we know that as this
church, if you've never been a part of
this church, we do have the open space.
We have that in our small groups.
We have that after service,
even in the middle service.
I'll even ask questions.
I'm fine with talking a
little bit in service.
That doesn't bother me too much.
Um, but I want us to do
it in an honorable way.
So how do we avoid these disputes?
How do we avoid these disputes?
Well, verse 15 tells us this.
He says to this to be diligent, to
present yourselves to God as one
approved a worker who does not need to
be ashamed, correctly, teaching the.
And so you understand this, yes,
Paul is speaking to Timothy, who
is a leader in the church, but
this text is not just two pastors.
I think it would, you know, you guys
might really enjoy it a lot if I got to
just preach about how I should only live.
But luckily the word of God includes us.
All right?
I have to lead by example.
So he's teach, he's talking to
all of us when we look at this.
So his first suggestion is to
not seek the approval of men.
So think about this when he says this,
he says, Be diligent to present yourself
to God as one approved not to man.
I'll just tell you this, most arguments
in the church and in the home are
somebody trying to prove themselves.
Prove their position and they begun begin
to get angry to prove their position.
Well, as we are having discussions in
the church, know that we're trying to
honor God and we're trying to, uh, be
approved by God, not by anybody else.
And so at times when we get in those
arguments, it's because we're trying
to get approval from someone else.
So we do not let need to let
that lead us to be divisive.
And so we, how do we handle disputes?
This is how we think.
One, what does God think?
About what I'm saying and the stance I'm
taking, but two, this is so important.
Does my attitude in how I'm
handling this reflect a loving,
compassionate, and understanding heart?
It's so important for us to reflect on
what God's view of our conversations
are, but number two, how we handle that.
And then he talks about this
in order to know what God
thinks we need to be a workman.
How many of y'all work?
We all understand how to work.
That's great.
We work hard, we, we do things.
Um, why do we do those things
so that we can do them well or
so we can learn well, right?
If you don't do your job well, you
probably don't have a job here.
Right?
So understanding the idea behind
a workman, he's saying, working
to know what the truth is.
As we begin to have discussions in our
church, if, think about this, if every one
of us are seeking to get God's approval,
if every one of us are seeking God's.
Then we will have the ability to handle
these disagreements in a godly way.
Doesn't mean maybe we have the same belief
or the same agreement on the, in the
end, the carpet color can be red or blue.
Maybe we don't come to the same
agreement, but we can do it in a civil.
Way, Right, A civil way.
So it's important to know this, that
Paul is talking to Timothy about
people in the church cuz we do have
disagreements with people outside the
church when we be outside the church.
People who don't know Christ and and
maybe have a difference of belief there.
And again, I think we still
handle that very similar way.
But he is talking about people in the
church and that's why you may look
around and go, But I love these people.
I would never have an argument.
Well for now, but we said that as well.
Me and my wife, for the first
year we were dating, we didn't
have one fight for the first year.
Now we've had a lot of those
we've made up for that first year.
Right?
Because we wouldn't have expected
some disagreements, right?
So we are really preparing ourselves
if we haven't experienced that.
So that's how important it
is for us to look at this.
And then the last thing he says
here, Be diligent to present yourself
to God to be approved by him.
A worker does not need to be ashamed
because he's worked at seeking the word
of God correctly, teaching the word.
Here's just a challenge.
This is a side note to this, correctly
teaching the word, sometimes we
start teaching on things or we
start having disagreements on things
of things we don't fully know.
So D, does anybody like having an.
Y'all like having an answer.
If somebody says, Hey, what should we do?
You like having an answer.
You like having an opinion.
We had a deacon at my past church.
It was the same way we had, he was
on our, our building committee.
He always had a solution to fix
our building, and we're like,
Where did you get that from?
I don't know.
I just had a, So he always had an
answer at times when we're having
some of these disagreements.
Don't think you always
have to have an answer.
Don't always like, if you don't fully know
the word of God in this situation or how
to handle the situation, take a step back.
Be humble in the situation.
Go seek the Lord.
Come back and have the conversation.
If you have not had that conversation
with me at all where we've talked about
biblical things or even decisions we make
in the church, you'll tend to hear me
come in and go, You know I'm listening.
Let me take a time to reflect.
Let me seek the Lord in this situation.
I've handled that a lot better than just
pressing back and just trying to always
be right or always have an answer, because
leaders that always have answers probably.
Aren't truly listening.
I would say this, we, we need to be
prepared, but we need to also listen.
And so it's just a idea when we think
about this, having the word of God, making
sure that we know what the truth is.
So I want you to think of this, right?
He says to remember to avoid
a disputing over words.
And let's flip this focus on affirming our
beliefs and what we agree on the truths.
So then he moves on, right?
Remember now avoid ungodly discussions.
This is where we see in verse 16 and 17.
So he says, Avoid
irreverent and empty speech.
Since those hidden engagement in it
will produce even more godlessness.
So let's talk about this.
Ungodly discussions, Ungodly discussions.
Most of us, if I asked
you, raise your hand.
If you've been an ungodly discussion,
you probably wouldn't raise your hand.
But ungodly discussions are discussions
that are things that are against the will
of God, things that would lead us to sin,
things that would lead us to not honor
God and distract us from the mission.
So to avoid means to
not even get involved.
Don't join the discussion.
If you see it walk away, and I
just know this as we talk about
this, we're getting ready to talk
about what they actually had.
Some differences of
belief, these two guys.
We're part of this Ungod list discussion.
They had a difference of
belief in resurrection.
Well, should they have
been able to talk about it?
Yes.
Should they have been
able to explore that idea?
If they had that?
Yes, they should have.
But what they did was they begin to
even lead out as leaders and begin to
influence the church in a negative way.
And so I know this, if you've ever
been around people that have had
discussions, you ever been in a circle
and all of a sudden somebody brings up.
A complaint or they bring
up something that's wrong.
You just felt like, Should
I leave the situation?
Should I join in?
What should I do?
How, how should I avoid this?
Well, we've gotta find ways as a church
to avoid these discussions, not, not
affirm them, not allow them to happen.
And again, I guys, I know you may be
saying, Hey, this really sounds like a
lot of fun, great things to go apply to
ourselves if, if this isn't something
that we're dealing with, praise.
But we need to know how to handle
as things like this will arise.
Guess what?
The more people that come into this room
and be a part of our church all come
with different spiritual backgrounds.
I'm learning that more and more as a
pastor from Oklahoma than I've ever
understood because in Oklahoma it seemed
like they were just Southern Baptist.
It just felt like we
just knew who we were.
Right?
But the more I come to Ohio,
nothing against Ohio, I'm just
telling you, I'm just, I have been.
From a belief standpoint,
challenged on all levels and in
a good way, a healthy way, right?
As I got to seek the word
and truly see what it says.
But the more people that we involve, the
more that we will see the opportunity
in a bad way for godless discussions.
Things that don't honor God,
Things that are against God's word,
that will get discussed and then
affirmed and then begin to cause.
Well, what do we hear
that happens in churches?
I know this, I've heard in
Hamilton there's a lot of churches
that got planted out of splits.
Not, not a good way.
So we, we wanna make sure that we are a
healthy church that's keeping the word of
God the main focus, the mission of God,
the main focus, not these outside things.
And so, um, when we think about this,
it's, it's an op opportunity I think for
us when we think about the differences of
our backgrounds to learn from one another.
But in some cases, this can bring about,
uh, ungodly discussions that can lead
people away from their faith, right?
To create disunity in the
church and stir up controversy.
Paul was saying, if we get involved in
these things, it's going to escalate,
escalate to something horrible.
What is that?
He uses verse 17.
This is very, very clear, and
I, I, again, studying more
about this, I'm just like, Wow.
But he says in verse 17, he says,
And they're teaching this Ungod list.
Teaching will spread like gang green.
Anybody know what gang green is?
Okay.
Couple people, maybe some of y'all don't.
Like I watched the movie over it once.
It's weird.
Like weird.
Okay.
It's something that spreads fast.
It's also something that stinks.
Whenever ungodly conversations are
happening in the church, it's going to
stink it and it will spread quickly.
This is Paul, like, I know sometimes
we don't wanna hear this, but
we have to protect ourselves.
We have to be aware.
These things happen in our church.
We're here to learn from one
another to prevent things.
Just like this.
I'll just give you guys a great example
and just wanna help continue to apply
this within mine and my wife's marriage.
We always wanna continue to discuss.
We love each other.
We're gonna be married forever.
We always wanna discuss the opportunities
in which we place ourselves in
positions where we could be prone to
wander, prone to be, uh, unfaithful.
And you may say what?
You would never do that.
How would even a pastor even talk?
He's gonna be faithful.
No, no.
What are we doing?
We're preparing in the good seasons to
say, Hey, you shouldn't be alone with.
You should make sure you avoid
these unfruitful conversations or
to have deeper conversations here.
Why?
To protect ourselves to know when
we get in those situations that
we avoid them for the sake of not
obviously breaking the relationship.
That's a logical one that makes
sense, but the church is a body of
people that wants to be together.
We want to fulfill the
mission that God has given us.
So we wanna avoid these things for
the benefit of the body and the
mission that God has called us to.
Right?
So why I love being able to, This
is the part where, again, if you,
you don't know much about it.
I love asking questions.
You get to be engaged a lot right now.
You ready?
Why do you believe disputes over words and
ungodly discussions happen in the church?
I've had time to think about
it, so maybe you guys haven't.
Let me just start and maybe I'll get some.
I really think this is why it
happens and I, I can't prove
it, but I can tell you this.
We continually try to become a
church that allows there to be
more conversations than just mine.
So in churches that don't really
allow time to actually have genuine
conversations, there's no outlet.
So if you guys are hearing me today
and you're saying, Hey, I have some
differences in what, what the, the word of
God's saying here, I have some questions
about what we're doing as a church.
There's no outlet to discuss it.
So when we don't give an outlet
to discuss it, what happens?
We make up the decisions on our own.
We get in our own small little
groups to figure that out and.
Things happen.
So I want to continue to present as
a church for us that you see these
five minutes that we had before we
start, you know, uh, uh, preaching
and then after we tend to hang out.
And then we have things called inspire
groups during the week to, to hang
out and get in the word of God.
And my phone number's
always available to talk.
Like it's those points where we want
to continue to provide access to
not lead these where if we do have
differences, let's talk about 'em.
So that's one of Anybody else got
another idea why you think this?
Pride.
Absolutely.
Making assumptions.
Anybody, Nobody here
makes assumptions, right?
I do it way too much.
And then we don't ever go talk to
the person or talk to the, and then
we believe the worst about 'em.
And then when we finally
have the conversation, they
never meant it that way.
How do we handle that?
We go talk to 'em quickly.
It's a good one.
Anybody else have something?
Yes, that is their spiritual gift.
They will even claim that my
spiritual gifts to come to the
church and make sure there isn't
a 100% vote on anything guarantee.
I'm telling you we've had 'em before,
not here at some of the church.
So if that's you, praise God.
I'm glad you're here.
Keep coming.
I love you.
There's always gotta be one.
So somebody's probably
gonna be that one, right?
I, and ultimately, so I would
even say this, and this is,
is it's church answer sin.
Um, when my life's broken and I'm
dealing with sin, just being real
with you guys, when my life's broken,
I'm dealing and wrestling with sin.
I wanna stir the pot.
I want somebody else to struggle with.
So I'll start something
like I, I, I, Okay.
So I just want, I'm, I'm glad I get to
be the example cause I'm the one saying
up here when I'm frustrated, if I'm
having a bad day, you know what I do?
I try to make Britney have a bad day.
My wife, like, I'll say something just
to like, she needs to feel bad with me.
I don't do that all the
time, but at times I do.
And then of course I have to go
back and apologize cuz I'm a jerk.
But sometimes we just come in
with so much sin in our life,
so much brokenness in our.
We create these things because if
we don't wanna be the only ones,
and so that's the whole point.
Church is messy.
Paul knows this, but you know what
I love about church family, which
means this, If you come in in a bad
mood like I have before and, and you
stir the pot, I must have love you.
Hopefully we'll love each other.
We're gonna obviously say, Hey, let's not
do, That's not valuable for the church.
That's what we're doing today.
But the goal is obviously Paul's
trying to help us know it will.
It does happen and it will.
So when it does, don't be shocked.
But how do we handle it?
We avoid it.
How do we handle?
We avoid it, right?
So how do we avoid it?
I believe God gives us places of
discussions without arguments and fighting
that we teach the truth like we're doing
today, like we do in our small groups.
We teach the truth.
We dive into God's word, and
we are unified in situations.
I wanna be as clear as I can.
I talk about this a lot in our church.
Unity is not uniformity.
You guys are not uniform in the way that
you dress or how, what your age is, right?
But we're united and being
here in the same place, right?
So an idea with this is that at times
we're gonna be united on the key facts
of who Jesus is, why he came, how we give
our lives to him, what he's called us to
do, and then we can have some differences.
In a civil way that are not
outside of those things.
But I think that this is so important,
just like what we're talking about here.
We need to seek God and we need
to honor him at everything we do.
So how we handle our disagreements are
so important in a civil and godly way.
So we avoid ungodly discussions
by focusing on godly discussions
that build people up in their
faith rather than tear them down.
Don't be me whenever I'm mad.
Okay.
Basically, that's what I'm saying.
So, If we remember to avoid disputing
over words and remember un um, avoiding
ungodly discussions, here's something
that we need to remember as well.
The consequences of avoiding these
things, of not avoiding these things.
The consequences of not
avoiding these things.
We, we know as, as young kids, If you
have young kids, ever had young kids, at
some point they learn when things are hot.
Now you hope that you're protecting them
by telling them, but at times they end up
putting their hand on there and they get.
And they could have avoided it if they
just would've listened and remembered
that mom and dad said, Don't touch this.
This is hot.
There's consequences.
You know what Paul's trying to do?
He's trying to help us avoid the
consequences of what it would mean
to have un ungodly discussions
and the disputes over the words.
Right?
He says this in verse at the back end
of verse 17 and 18, that they run.
Faith or they can be led as stray.
So let's read this.
He says, And their teaching will spread
like gang Green Haen and I don't know how
to say this name, Vi vis are among them,
they have departed from the truth saying
that the resurrection has already taken
place and are running the faith of some.
The consequences of leaning into these
things is that we can run the faith
of, So I think that's a big deal.
Y'all like when you know the consequences
of of our actions really matter that much.
It challenges us to not touch the hot
thing because we don't wanna experience
those things, to not touch these
things that are ungodly these things
that are, are disputing, that are
causing people to run from their faith.
So Paul mentions these two
men, and I always talk about
this, this, it's kind of funny.
You either wanna see your name
in the Bible or you don't.
Sometimes you do.
This is a great instance.
You don't, and it makes me think for
me, like I wouldn't want my name to be
in the Bible if this is the reason why,
because I was disagreeing with Paul.
But it happens, right?
So we see these two guys and they're
basically teaching this truth
about the spiritual resurrection.
So they're teaching half.
When we look at this, he says that
he, they mentioned that they do not
believe that the re, they believe the
resurrection has already taken place.
So what they're saying is that
the resurrection spiritually has
already taken place, but there will
not be a physical resurrection.
So if we think about this, we
wanna kind of be clear here.
If you give your life to Christ,
there's a raising from death to life.
Spiritually.
You are no longer dead in your sins.
You're raised with Christ and are alive.
They were actually teaching that
truth, which is very biblical that we.
Obviously dead in our sins
and we are alive in Christ.
And so that was there.
But they were teaching that there
was no resurrection of our bodies.
After Christ comes back, there was
no resurrection of our body, which
was contrary to the teaching of
what Paul and Jesus had taught.
And so they were confusing people.
So let's look at a couple
of scriptures here.
If you wanna write these down.
I don't have these up on the
screen, but here's what Jesus
talks about when he talks about the
resurrection in John 5 28 through 20.
He says, Do not be amazed at this because
a time is coming when all who are in the
graves will hear his voice and come out.
And those who have done good
things to the resurrection of life.
But um, yeah, but for those who have done
good things to the resurrection of life,
but those who have done wicked things
to the resurrection of condemnation,
but then even Paul shares in First
Corinthians chapter 1512 through.
Here's what he says, specifically
speaking to anybody who would talk
about there being no resurrection.
Um, after Christ comes back, it says,
Now, if Christ is proclaimed as raised
from the dead, how can some of you say
there is no resurrection of the dead?
If there is no resurrection of the dead,
then not even Christ has been raised.
If Christ has not been raised,
then our prop proclamation is
in vain, and so is your faith.
Moreover, if we are found to be false
witnesses about God, because we have
testified wrongly about God that he raised
up Christ whom he did not raise up, in
fact, the dead are not raised in Christ
for if the dead are not raised in Christ.
Not even Christ has been raised.
And so here's where it's kind of the.
If Christ has not been raised,
then your faith is worthless
and you're still in your sins.
Those then who have fallen asleep
in Christ have also perished.
So if we have put our hope in
Christ for this life only, then we
should be pitied more than others.
There's a lot more to that text.
If you want that verse, I can give
it to you after service, but it's
really to this idea is if we do
not believe in the resurrection,
then we are missing obviously.
A lot to this.
So these teachers were teaching
contrary to the word of God, to what
Jesus had said, what Paul had said,
and they were leading people, ast.
This was a great example of the ungodly
conversations that were happening.
Something that was being spoke
contrary to the word of God.
And that's the part where, again,
I think we can, should continue to
have space to talk about what God's
word says, but ultimately we have to
protect what the word of God says.
And so that's what I went back to
as soon as, as soon as I read this,
just so you know, as a pastor,
as soon as I read this, I went.
Well, where in the Bible doesn't talk
about the importance of the resurrection.
I didn't just take Paul's word for it.
I actually went out and searched and
found, Hey, here's where it actually talks
about the importance of the resurrection
of our bodies and, and our life after
Christ and, and all these things.
Okay, I can see where they missed the
mark and Paul had pointed this out,
and so even for me, I didn't just take
the word, I went and dove a little
deeper, and so we should all do that.
But it's interesting when we look at
this, these guys taught half truths.
They believed in one part of the
resurrection, but not the resurrection
of our lives after Christ.
Half truths.
Typically, the most dissension that
happens in the church is what they
say in sounds of what we're saying
sounds very similar to what somebody
who's speaking incorrectly is saying.
And so these people are being led
straight and run in their faith.
So I know like you're sitting here
going, What's valuable for this?
We will need this.
You may need this now, but we
will need this if we don't,
um, pay attention and remember.
And so I just wanna summarize this.
We're gonna be.
Is the word of God trains and equips us
to be able to fight the good fight and
to finish the race and to keep the faith.
This is what we'll find in Second
Timothy chapter four, verse seven.
Ultimately to avoid distractions, if
we will be people of the word workman
in the word to seek the word of God
will avoid some of these things.
And so we need to remember these
things to, to keep with us.
We need to be in the word of God
every day to keep with us, to help
us avoid being distracted from what
God's called us to do and to be
distracted from the truth of God's word.
So how we conduct ourselves as follow over
Jesus and as a church is so, so important.
Don't miss out that you were an
important body of Christ, of of
Christ, and an important part
of this church if you're here.
And when we know those consequences,
that's the point, point guys.
When we know the consequences and
how they are not valuable for us or
valuable for other people, it will help
us to not lead, you know, ourselves
that way or to not be involved in
those, uh, godless discussions.
Um, and so I just wanna
challenge you with this.
We, we have something, what we
call us in invitation every week.
If you've been a part of a church, you've
heard it and you go, Oh, that's logical.
It makes sense.
An invitation is an
ability to just reflect.
It's just to reflect and say,
Okay, Lord, I've heard the message.
I've been just contemplating
it and processing.
What does it mean?
What does it mean for me to
apply any of this to my life?
What do I need to do to, to
remember this in times of need?
And so maybe these are a couple
things that you might ask yourself.
You might ask yourself this during, uh,
invitation and just seeking the Lord.
You might ask the Lord to help you to not
be a part of, uh, disputing over words
and getting into ungodly conversations.
Where you'll prioritize truth, um, over
those false things that he has said.
Right?
Not getting distracted from the mission.
Maybe that's one thing that you would
pray for, just to prepare yourself
for the coming of something like that.
You might ask God to help you deal
with the differences, um, that
you're having or the differences
in, um, honoring God and the church.
What I would say here is, is
that maybe you have been a
part of something like this.
Maybe you have caught yourself
having fruitless discussions.
Maybe this is just a good time to go
before the Lord and say, You know what,
Lord, I've been a part of that before.
Uh, uh, I've had that heart before.
Forgive me.
Help me not do that again.
And, and this is a great time
to, to think through that.
Um, here's another one, and I, this is
probably the last one I wanna mention.
You may have been a part of a church and
the reason why you left it is because
you experienced these fruitless discuss.
I'm telling you that it's happened
more times than not, where I talk
to people and they say, We don't
wanna go to church because of all
the infighting in the church, all the
fruitless discussions, all the things
that were contrary to the word of God.
We don't wanna be a part of that.
If that was you here,
here's my encouragement.
Number one, I, I pray that you seek the
Lord today and ask the Lord to give you
peace, to forgive those who maybe you had
a bad experience with the last church.
Cuz don't bring that baggage with.
You should be able to move on from it.
So learn to forgive the people
that did that to you, the
church that did that to you.
But my encouragement as well is, is
that you strive to not be that church
here, not to be that person here that
would lead someone astray or for a
new person to come into the church.
And the first thing they see is
people arguing about worthless things.
So there's multiple things you can
pray and seek the Lord about today,
but my challenge is to, to take this.
And to remember to seek the Lord about
how you apply to your lives now and
how it prepares you for the future
and for our church in the future.
But also, I don't ever wanna
hesitate and miss this opportunity
if you've never given your life to
Jesus, if you don't even know what
it means of relationship to Jesus.
And you're sitting here hearing all these
things about, man, I don't know if I
wanna be a part of, uh, uh, the Christian
Church because it sounds a little messy.
I'll just tell you this, it's messy in
the world and it's messy in the church,
but the good part in the church, we
have Jesus who's forgiven us, who guides
us, directs us with this word, and
he gives us love and grace and mercy.
So I'm gonna pray for us and uh,
we'll have some time invitation and,
uh, towards the end of invitation.
This is something I wanna mention.
Lauren, I didn't tell he
was gonna mention this.
What you'll hear a lot of times
with invitation, we're gonna,
they're gonna sing, gets you an
opportunity to just, uh, reflect.
But when you're done reflecting my
encouragements to go ahead and stand and.
And worship the Lord on the way
out, um, in our time of invitation.
Cause I think it's a God honoring
way to do that for us as a church.
So, Lord Jesus, we thank you again
for your word and Lord, today.
Um, I hope that we understand how,
um, our words matter and Lord, how we
handle differences in the church matter.
Lord, I, I pray that you
protect our church Lord, as,
um, we saw here some ungod.
Discussions that were happening in
Timothy's church, uh, Lord, that was
causing people to run from their faith.
Lord, I pray that we as a
church avoid these things.
Lord, I pray that we seek your word, uh,
as individuals, as a church, um, and we
seek to know it well so that we can honor
you in anything that we say and we do.
And, um, Lord, we know that
you are a God that forgives.
So, Lord, if we've ever in the
past been a part of something
like this, Lord forgive us.
If, if we've ever maybe experienced a bad
church experience where this happened,
Lord, I pray that we are able to forgive
them and move on, but God is a church.
I just pray as well that we
every day, Lord, um, seek you.
That's my hope and, and, and passion
and, um, prayer every day for each
person in this room, Lord, that
they know you deeper and deeper.
And if they do these things, Lord, in
which we could be, uh, distracted by.
Uh, will, will not distract us
because Lord, we know the truth.
So, Lord, we just, um, pray that you
meet us today and, and help us know,
Lord, what we should pray and seek
the Lord, uh, for, um, in this time.
And may we leave out here
change because of it.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.